Hi within this lecture we are going to add delete functionality in our app.
Right now we can see the data we can see the details of the data and everything but we don't have delete
functionality and we have seen how to delete values from table to use before right.
We have to use commit editing style function but we don't know how to delete those values from the core
data and we're just going to learn in this lecture.
So go to the bottom of this controller and I'm not in the wheel controller I believe.
I mean the details we see I have to go to wheel controller because that's where my table view is now
at the bottom of the wheel controller.
I'm just going to call for editing editing style committee editing style.
Yeah.
That is the one that I'm looking for.
Remember we can have the delete functionality in here.
We had to just check for the editing style and if it's delete we're just going to do what we have to
do.
So I will say if editing style is actually dot delete then I'm going to do my thing in here and deleting
functionality in the core data and it has to be double equal sign of course and the leading functionality
in the core data works like this.
First we get the element from the core data.
Okay so we do the patch again and then we just going to delete it and save it one more time.
So I'm just going to create our app delegate.
I'm just going to go over and create a factual crest one more time.
So this is going to be exactly what we're doing in the details we see so you can just copy and paste
as well.
But I believe we should write this so it will be a practice for us so I'm going to drive this contacts
from the app to get that persistent container that we've context.
Okay.
And then later on I'm just going to create my fetch request and remember this is and that's fetch requests.
And remember the reason that I'm doing this before I delete the data I had to get it from the core data
and then delete it.
And and in the end actually I'm going to save it again.
So in here I have I'm doing the same thing as I'm doing in the we did load but I'm just going to write
it from scratch.
So in this feature quest if you open parentheses it will ask you for an entity name.
OK.
So entity name will be paintings and we have to just say in his facial cross results one more time.
So I think it's getting boring in here but at the same time you're doing this practice so you won't
forget how to create app delegates how to create fetch requests.
So let's say in this fetch request predicate will be in predicate why I'm doing this filtering thing
because we're just going to get the selected item right the item that our user is trying to delete.
So we're just going to get it.
Using the idea of the selected item.
So you know how to do that we're just going to use our selected ideas from the idea array and make it
equal to I.D. percent at.
So just say I.D. equal 2 percent adds.
So with spaces over here and the arguments of course going to be the you you I.D. string.
So this is going to be I.D. drink I.D. array index path throw.
OK.
So this will give me the selected items I.D. And I'm going to convert this to be a new UI this drink.
So this is exactly the same thing that we have done in the details view controller.
So we're gonna get this.
We're going to get those values from the core data.
And before we do that let me just not forget the return objects as false thing.
And then I'm going to use the context and I'm going to fetch this as try results not the results contacts
that fetch.
And the fact you crest is fetch request.
Of course we're going to have to do this in a do try catch structure.
Okay do try catch.
So print error if any error or cures.
And then later on I'm just going to check if results is actually results that count is actually larger
than zero.
So there isn't any reason not to be.
But just for being on the safe side I'm just going to check it anyway and just do the same for loop
that we have been doing and cast is as and that's managed object and this will only give me one results.
However we got an array in here so we have to go into for loop anyway.
So I'm going to find the idea.
OK.
I'm going to get the idea from results that value and it doesn't pop up because I misspelled it.
The result that value for the key I.D. as you I.D..
OK and even though it doesn't make sense to you right now I'm just gonna check if this I.D. is equal
to the idea that it's coming from my I.D. array so I'm just going to say if I.D. is equal to you you
I.D. not you your I.D. I.D. array index parts that throw.
OK.
So what does it mean why I'm doing this.
I got the idea if I got the selected I.D. from the idea array and I used that I.D. to get those information.
So it has to be equal right.
So I'm just comparing the same I.D. but I'm just doing this to be on the safe side because right now
I'm just going to delete the value from the core data by saying context that delete and there is no
return from this.
OK.
I'm just going to delete the object.
OK I'm just going to say delete the result and there is no way back.
So I'm just doing this just to be sure and after I'm deleting this result and result being DNS managed
object I'm just going to remove everything from my arrays as well.
OK I'm just going to say name array not renew I.D. array that removed in order to synchronize my datasets.
OK.
And for the last thing I'm just going to have to say table view dot reload data.
Because I've just changed the data source and that's it.
Right now I deleted the others managed object meaning I deleted the record.
Now I have to save the current context.
So I have to come over here and say context not save.
And again it will give me an error saying that you have to do this inside of a do you try catch.
So I'm just gonna create another do try catch inside of my current to try catch.
Okay.
But in here just say do try.
Context not save.
Catch if it's any error you can just print the error.
So that's it.
That's how you delete the value from core data you get the data you check if it's the data that you
want to delete and you delete the data or you delete DNS managed object and then you save it.
I'm just going to say break in here.
Why do I use this.
Because if I delete the data ok I'm checking give the IDC cool and everything.
If I delete the data if this idea is actually the idea that I'm looking for then I want to break out
a for loop.
It will give me very results really because we are working with ideas not names not any made up values
that we have come up with.
We are working with ideas.
So it's going to be only one looping this fall.
But to be on the safe side I'm just going to use break in here.
So if you decide to use something rather than I.D. in your own codes you have to use this because once
you delete one item then this loop shouldn't be continue.
You have to break out of this loop.
So if you say break it means that and this loop just go out of it and do what you have to do next.
And again in my case it isn't necessary to use this but it in some cases we're doing this with a name
rather than I.D. should be necessary.
So let's see.
Let's run this and let's see if we can actually delete the values from table were you let's say swipe
left and here you go We can delete them.
OK so let me delete this one and let me delete this one as well.
Yep they're gone.
So let's see if we managed to delete them from the core data.
If we run it from the scratch one more time as you can see we don't see the related the value.
So it works.
So far so good.
Let's stop here and within the next lecture we're going to finish our app by doing the rest of the improvements.